> Facebook would like to develop a way to estimate the month and day of people's birthdays, regardless of whether people give us that information directly. What methods would you propose, and data would you use, to help with that task?

(Questions for the interviewer) Is this problem constrained to a specific geography?

(Possible interviewer answer) Yes, we consider all the countries that make use of Facebook.

First we can think about what signals can be used to determine a person's birthday. The first thing that comes to my mind, is comments on the person's profile, wishing him happy birthday. This is a strong signal of somebody's birthday. And there could be other signals, like relatives and/or friends buying gifts or birthday decorations. But this can be a confusing signal, because a person may have many people added to their list of friends, so if they buy something it could be for any of their friends. I cannot think of any other signal at the moment so I will focus on the first one: a person's profile comments.

Apart from that, I would have to determine the metric to measure the algorithms performance. I think I can treat this like a binary problem: on a specific day there is or there is not a birthday. The metric is related to the objective of the estimation. What are we trying to achieve with this algorithm, is it recall, or is it precision? If we want a balance between recall and precision, we could use the F-score.

The next thing we can do is collecting our data. If the data is from all the globe, we could do a random sampling. It should not be a deal to sample that data randomly from a database.
Given that these comments that we are gathering may come in different languages, we need to define an strategy for dealing with this kind of data. We could use a generic translator from a third-party vendor and translate all comments to english, this could be a good option to have a first prototype of the model. By translating all comments to english, we are reducing the complexity.

Now, I will think about the model. We are dealing with a supervised learning problem and binary classes that deals with text. I would first apply a very simple model, easy to debug. For example, bag of words or TF-IDF to obtain features and a linear model on top of them. For these algorithms, it would be better to remove stopwords, lowercase the sentences, remove special characters and punctuation symbols.

We have our data and our model. The next thing we must do is splitting the data into training, validation, and tests sets. With all this, we can finally train our model and obtain a baseline. If the baseline meets the acceptance metrics we have defined at the beginning, we can deploy it, otherwise, we would need to iterate on the problem and use more complex models that do not need hand-crafted features.